---
layout: default
title: Diablo 3
categories: 100days
---

Just over 3 years ago, Diablo 3 launched. I was one of many who had pre-ordered the game digitally and had it pre-installed for the day of release. At the stroke of midnight, the servers required for the game to function allowed us access and, after numerous widespread connection problems, I joined thousands of players who had been eagerly awaiting the game in an attempt to thwart the Lords of Hell. 2 weeks of regular playing later, I stopped. And I wouldn't play it again for another 2 and a half years.

Prior to release it had received mounting criticism over the decision to be an 'always online' game, requiring an internet connection to both login and play.Unlike developer Blizzard’s most popular and famous game, World of Warcraft, Diablo 3 can be played purely on one’s own, but also in a party if one wishes. Then why would Blizzard not allow players access wherever and whenever they liked? It’s because not only was this not Blizzard’s first time at the rodeo, but they had worn out all the bulls too...

Diablo 3 had been a long time coming, given the original was released in 1996, and its sequel in 2000. Diablo was developed by independent studio, Condor, who only months before Diablo's release were bought by Blizzard, and were renamed to Blizzard North. Initially a turn-based RPG, it was decided towards the end that it should be played in real time, a decision believed to have contributed to its success. There were, I think, 16 levels all procedurally generated upon first entrance. Once you had cleared out a level, it stayed empty. By killing enemies you gained experience which you used to increase your character’s stats, and you collected money to buy better weapons, armor, spells and other items. If, when you got to the final boss, Diablo, your decisions had led to an underpowered character, you had no choice but to start again or reload a earlier save. Pretty typical for a game of that time. Diablo remains one of my all-time favourite games.

Diablo 2, also created by Blizzard North, I struggled with for years. Blizzard North had taken the basic premise of Diablo, the story, the procedurally generated maps, random loot, characters, etc... but gave it all a twist that led me to enjoy playing immensely until later in the game where I would just be too underpowered and die constantly. What they did was to divorce your character from the game. The story and levels were broken up into four acts, and each map sprawled out in multiple directions interlinked by waypoints. And then not only did each area and its inhabitants generate on entrance, _but also after reloading the game_. This meant that if I cleared out an area, moved on to the next, then returned it would still be fully explored, the same configuration and empty. But if I quit the game and reloaded, returning to that area would reveal an unexplored, regenerated enemy inhabited map. You could replay areas again, including bosses. Combined with this tweak, was the introduction of more powerful legendary and 'set' items. The latter providing bonuses if a number of the same set were worn. Of course, at the time I thought "Why would I want to have to beat a boss again?". I was playing it like the original Diablo.

The real secret to Diablo 2, which was refined further in World of Warcraft, was this concept of re-running areas for the random drops. Diablo 2 allowed you to log in to a server, group together into a party of up to four, and run acts over and over as a means to increase experience, gold and upgrade your gear. I personally think it was this merging of Warcraft's universe and Diablo 2's ideas that led to what World of Warcraft has become and why it is so successful.

So 10 years of WoW later and Diablo 3 is in development. Blizzard now have unparalleled experience in server-based games. They want Diablo 3 to be 'always online', like WoW. But Diablo 2 was single-player and allowed us to create and join parties, it obviously doesn't need to be always connected to a server. But there was a different vision for Diablo 3. That ability to create and join parties needed to be smoother. And boy is it. You can tell Blizzard learnt a lot in those 10 years. Taking those initial ideas from Diablo 2 and letting them mature at the hands of the millions who played WoW, they were distilled and put right back to where they belong.  It is a very different game to that first outing, 16 years ago. A lot of people want sequels to be the same game that they enjoyed the first time, but when that happens, they moan it wasn't anything different. Yes Diablo 3 is shorter, faster, more action-oriented and focuses on repeat runs of the same areas, but it knows this. And it comes with all the aids you need to jump in for a quick game, either alone or in a random party, and then accidentally stay for hours.

But I said earlier that I stopped for 2 and a half years yet I have rambled on about all the fine qualities of this game. Well, on initial release it didn't have a lot to draw you back after you had completed the game, aside from playing it again with a different character class. There were a few rough edges. It wasn't until the expansion pack, Reaper of Souls was released that became complete, in my opinion. It brought so many changes with it that the game is barely recognisable from that initial release along with a renewed sense of purpose. And it is still actively being developed and tweaked so it may change yet again. A game, like WoW, in constant flux. Adapting to a constantly changing market. Unshackling itself from the traditional game model of following up a successful game with sequel upon sequel and instead taking one game and growing it organically.

I'll play it for a few weeks more, then likely take another long break. Knowing when I return, enjoy another burst of the game as it is then.
