---
layout: default
title: Seoul Retrospective
categories: 100days
---

It has been a full two days since returning from Seoul. Two days of Easter weekend on which to end my holiday, mostly on a couch or in front of my PC, simply decompressing. But now I think it time to write a final piece about Seoul, draw a line in the sand, and move on.

I arrived in Seoul on a Friday in the early afternoon armed with a Rough Guides book, which I’d skimmed through a few days before and again on the plane. Linzi wasn’t arriving until late Saturday, so I was going to have to brave this alien culture on my lonesome, for now.

As a general rule, Incheon airport handles international flights and Gimpo handles domestic. So there I stood at Incheon and the first thing I notice is how lovely the airport is. Aside from the long wait for the passport check, navigating through its innards was seamless with an added bonus of fast, free wifi.

Once I’d stopped being suitably impressed, it was time to begin the epic journey to the hotel, which lay in the South East of Seoul in an area called Sincheon. It is not ideally placed for the tourist sights which lie in the city centre, North of the Han river, but, well, _city prices_. I’d read that taxis are actually very reasonable in Seoul. Getting from the airport to the centre, which is probably a similar distance away as Heathrow is to London, would reportedly only cost me about £30-ish. Seemed unlikely, though a taxi ride through the city later in the week did confirm that taxis there are about half the price of an English taxi. Instead, I took the train into the centre, followed by a subway. It took a lot longer, but for what ended up being around a two hour trip, it only cost £2-3. It also allowed me to get a T Money card, their version of our Oyster card, which is highly recommended if you plan on taking any form of public transport. And it should be noted that their public transport system is one of the best in the world. Fast, efficient, spacious and clean with phone reception at all times and wifi backup (provided you have a phone that works there). There was enough English dotted around to get me all the way to the hotel without any trouble.

On the Friday evening, I just investigated the area surrounding the hotel and tried to get a feel of the culture. As I mentioned in a previous post, initially Korea is a daunting place. It just felt so foreign, which surprised me, as I’ve spent half my life living all over the world and visiting all the bits in-between. That could just mean I’ve been getting too comfortable living in England, though. But it did seem like there were fewer English speakers and less English writing about than I expected from a major city, and there I was, barely able to remember ‘hello’ (It’s ‘annyeong haseyo’, by the way). Anyway, I located a bar, of sorts, and with the power of pointing and hand gestures I managed to secure a drink and some food.

On Saturday, as I waited for Linzi to join me, and not wanting to see anything without her, I decided to walk around a bit and eventually found myself in Gangnam, which is _not_ full of people dancing Gangnam style, contrary to popular belief. There was, however, a Samsung showroom where I got to see a 108 inch 4K LCD screen. Which was nice.

The days following Linzi’s arrival had us venturing out and doing the more ‘touristy’ things like seeing palaces, museums, markets and the DMZ, even venturing into, technically, North Korea. Scary. I did not get shot, you’ll be pleased to know.

Much to our shame, we weren’t too adventurous when it came to the food. It is, on the most part, wacky and wonderful, but completely unknown. When it comes to traditional Korean food, the majority of places do not have an English menu but some at least have pictures, which gives you a place to start. There’s a huge trend towards Korean fusion or ‘neo Korean’ at the moment, which are more likely to cater to foreigners, but that’s not what you would be after, necessarily. A lot of the more traditional eateries are very market-like and look run down, with low quality food pictures generally leaving you with a sense of low quality food. So, we played it safe more often than we’d like. Luckily, we never fell far enough to land in one of the many, _many_ McDonald’s (who deliver over there), KFC, Subway or other western fast-food establishments that have infested the city. Korean BBQ does hold a special place in our hearts now.

Language aside, Korea struck us as a slightly less bonkers version of Japan. Seoul is a big city and you would not want to drive _anywhere_ within it, but it felt very safe and welcoming. That, combined with all we had been reading about the... ‘incindiary’... history of their culture, left us with a certain adoration for Seoul and the Koreans in general. A week, while long enough to see everything we wanted to see – a list which was predominantly generated by a tourist booklet Linzi had acquired upon arriving – was not enough to truly get the flavour of living in a city like that. We left, smitten. With the certainty that we would, one day, return.

And now, if you’ll excuse me, I shall be here, enjoying a glass or two of the fine, Korean wine, makeolli.
