---
layout: default
title: Up Front 2015
categories: 100days
---

After some unsurprising rail problems, I finally returned to Brighton after an excellent trip up to Manchester for [Up Front](http://upfrontconf.com/). As I mentioned in my previous post, I do like returning to Manchester. It was good seeing so many familiar faces. For their first conference of this size trio Dan Donald, Simon Owen and Jack Sheppard (and cohorts) did a sterling job. It wasn’t without its minor problems, however, which I’ll cover first. The venue, The Comedy Store, while sporting excellent seats had a semi-circular layout but also a recessed stage where the projector screen sat, causing the people on the sides to barely see the screen at all. Luckily the number of tickets sold wasn’t the capacity of the venue, but it wasn’t far off. And the only other thing I can criticise is... well... Dan, I love you, but you need to up your compere skills. Shifting between speakers and the introducing of each speaker was rough round the edges. But I forgive you ;) Running a conference isn’t an easy thing.

With those minor things aside, everything else was excellent. Free coffee and water, biscuits, even lunch was included, which considering the cheap ticket prices was a surprise to all. Each of the speakers were very accomplished and the talks were varied, covering a wide range of front-endery. But the day had a general theme of performance (I don’t know if it was intentional). Though, I think that’s going to be the theme of 2015, having seen it covered elsewhere, and the recent Facebook ‘instant articles’.

At the end, they announced they will be returning next year. So, see you there?
