---
layout: default
title: Spotify
categories: 100days
---

I read on the [Independent](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/spotify-is-nearing-the-end-of-a-funding-round-that-will-see-it-nearly-double-in-value-to-84-billion-10172449.html) today that "Spotify is nearing the end of a funding round that will see it nearly double in value". This post is not about that. It is, of course, about me.

I used to use an Apple TV. The iOS version of Spotify could natively Airplay to my ATV, which was hooked up to my amplifier and speakers. To achieve the same effect on desktop versions of the app, I would need to use another app like [Airfoil](https://www.rogueamoeba.com/airfoil/), because Apple never really opened up the spec for Airplay OSX and so developers couldn't integrate it into their apps. Airfoil is, then, a kind of hack.

However, now I own an Amazon Fire TV, which I will cover in more detail in a future post. And one of my first worries, when I bought it, was how I would push music to my speakers without Airplay. But, never fear! There is a Spotify app on the Amazon app store which enables you to push music to it! ...from your mobile device or tablet only.

At least, that's how it was until a recent update, where every app now has the ability to find other currently running apps and push their music to it. This means that I can now play music from my PC, Mac Laptops or phone straight to the Fire TV, or even to each other. And the weird bit is, they all work in unison. If I play music from my iPhone to the Fire TV, then open Spotify on my Mac, it will also say that I am playing music to my Fire TV, and the album will look to be playing from the Mac. If you hadn't initiated the music yourself, you wouldn't know which of your devices is actually pushing the music.

So, what happened this morning was that I initially started playing music to the Fire TV from my phone. Several songs later, I changed to a different album using my Mac (still pushing to the Fire TV). Then, before I left the house, I closed my Mac, assuming the music would stop, but it didn't even pause. Instead it had seamlessly switched to streaming from my phone again.

_mind blown_

There is one fairly annoying issue which detracts from the magic somewhat, concerning connecting to the Fire TV, but I think I'll leave that until the more in-depth post on the Fire TV itself. That aside, this is what technology should be about. And if this is the way device connectivity is going. Sign. Me. Up.
