---
layout: default
title: Planes, Coaches and Taxis
---

I didn't manage to write my 100 days blog yesterday which, for the first time, was actually due to a valid inability instead of sheer laziness. This time, I was at the mercy of the weird world of air travel. Yesterday, I left my house at 15:00 to catch a train to Gatwick giving me, theoretically, plenty of time to get through what turned out to be a very busy baggage check, grab some food then change some money for a trip to Düsseldorf where I am currently attending the [Beyond Tellerrand](http://beyondtellerrand.com/) conference. The flight was at 18:00 and once that time had come and gone and the flight information still hadn't given us a gate, I could tell things weren't going to go quite so smoothly...

It actually didn't take much longer for the gate information to show up, but once I'd made my way to it, I had to wait another 30-ish minutes for the plane to actually show up and then for it to be ready for us to board. Okay. So. I bit delayed. I guess I'll miss that pre-conference BBQ I signed up to attend, then get an early night. No big loss. We were told later that this was because in Geneva, where the flight had come from, they identified that a tyre was beyond a certain tolerance and needed changing, which took just over an hour.

It wasn't until we were moments from being pushed out onto the runway that, over the PA, the captain let us know that Düsseldorf airport has a curfew and that we could no longer fly there as by the time we landed it would closed with no one willing to hang around a little bit longer to take us. Great. But, being EasyJet and therefore not wanting to deal with the ramifications of cancelling the flight, they gave us a plan. Oh yes. We were getting to Düssedorf one way or another. Instead, we were going to fly to Cologne airport and then they would arrange a coach to take us to Düsseldorf airport. No points for working out that, yes, they would be taking us to a closed airport. And, better yet, they had to wait for a new, on-call, crew to arrive and do the flight instead. So, we were all forced to sit on the plane for 40 minutes while we waited for this crew to arrive, and once they did, had to wait another 30 mins before we would take off.

But eventually we did. And thankfully the flight is only 55 mins, but with the time difference we had now arrived in Cologne sometime after 23:00. Then we just had to get to the coach, which was fine since we were pretty much the only people there, then wait for all the other passengers to make their way through passport control, get their luggage and make it to the coach. With the empty roads, the coach made good time and got us to Düsseldorf airport in only 30-ish mins. But, I must once again stress that this was a _closed airport_. The trains had stopped an hour ago. There may have been some night buses, but with no data and no staff I had no idea how to navigate that particular minefield, so I was left to get a taxi instead, which was obviously everyone else's idea, leading to queues and long waiting times for those.

All told, I didn't get to the hotel until just before 1 in the morning. The only saving upside to this was Marc, the event organiser and a few other conference friends still up having a few beers in the hotel bar who I could hang with, have a quick beer before crashing out.