---
layout: default
title: All GTA
---

Back in, roughly, April 2013, the producers of [GTA](http://www.rockstargames.com/grandtheftauto/), Rockstar, released the soundtracks – or, rather, playlists of the soundtracks – to each of its games onto Spotify. A friend of mine, Steve (amongst others, I'm sure), then compiled all those separate playlists into one combined playlist, titled ‘All GTA’. Spotify link [here](spotify:user:stevekubrick:playlist:533tJxsgXkvo1DUKQeFJGP).

For some reason I’ve found myself listening to it on a near daily basis for the last week, having forgotten about it for so long. It is over 55 hours of music, so it’s not easy to get bored of for a start. But I guess that’s not the suprising thing for me. Rather, I distinctly remember, even during playing the games that there were radio stations which I’d instantly switch from and, conversely stations I’d usually switch _to_ in-game. So, basically, once I got into a vehical I’d instantly change to that game’s rock radio station or something. So even when I first listened to the playlist, I had a similar reaction to disliking the songs which weren’t rock or, at least, 80s based. Now, however, I’m struggling to find any song which would cause me to skip ahead anymore. They’re not all necessarily to my taste, but they’re all well chosen, and I am able to appreciate more from a wider range of styles. As such, it serves as a really good eclectic mix of tracks, from classical to death metal with fusion jazz somewhere in the middle. But all (well, most) eminently listenable. Hell, I’d have it on in the office if it weren’t for the Sonos system being unable to search Spotify playlists.