---
layout: default
title: Civ 2
---

Much of our time spent in Seoul was in palaces, museums and cemeteries. Korea’s past is fascinating, tragic and inspiring. Though, I don’t know what it is about reading the history of a culture, but I get a rising urge to play one my old favourite games growing up, Civilization 2. I suspect it’s because Civ 2 is mostly an interactive (and disturbingly addictive) history lesson.

Once I had returned from Seoul, I instantly tracked down a copy and sunk more hours than I care to admit into it over the course of the subsequent Easter weekend. It still holds that same magic I fondly remembered.

Getting hold of it and getting it running, however, was less than intuitive. Firstly, copies of Civ 2 itself aren’t exactly what you might call, commercially available. It seems to have been classed as ‘abandonware’. If you did manage to find an original copy, perhaps in disk form on Ebay or something, then you actually hit a number of roadblocks getting that Windows 95 game running on your lovely, new 64-bit operating system of yours.

Thankfully, due to the legally grey area of abandonware and the passion and generosity of modding fanatics, you can get hold of an updated version of the game over at [Best Old Games](http://www.bestoldgames.net/eng/old-games/civilization-2.php) but then you need to make one final adjustment to bring a, now 32-bit version of the game, up to 64-bit with the patch on [this forum post](http://forums.civfanatics.com/showthread.php?t=193215).

This downloadable version runs fine and hasn’t crashed on me yet, but it does seem to lack a few things like the high council, music and the advisors. But that doesn’t detract from the game as a whole and after your sixth hour when the Russians have dropped a second nuclear missile on one of your major cities, you won’t be wondering what any of it was going to help you do anyway.

This is all for Windows, obviously. I don’t know whether this game ever game out for Mac. But if you wanted to play it on a Mac, I’d be looking at using Windows on Virtual or something, probably.